MOOC datasets come from Stanford’s Vice Provost’s Office of Online Learning
Documentation: http://datastage.stanford.edu/


Basic Tables
The main table file of the basic type export will include
'EventXtract' in its name. Each of its rows contains one 'event,' a
class participant's interaction with the OpenEdX learning
platform. This table can be very large, potentially more than 1M rows.


The table file that includes the term 'VideoInteraction' excerpts rows
from the EventXtract table that are video related. This table is
convenient for when you are particularly interested in video. The rows
still reflect individual participant interactions; they are not
aggregated. 


Rows in the table file that contains the name 'ActivityGrade' excerpts 
all the assignment related rows from EventXtract, but adds additional
assignment related information.
Time on Task Tables
The three tables obtained from the time-on-task choice are
'engagement_..._allData.csv,' 'engagement_..._summary.csv,' and
engagement_..._weeklyEffort.csv.' The allData table can be large. For
each participant the table contains one row per interaction 'session.' A
session is a series of actions the respective participant undertook on
the platform, with no more than 30 minutes of inactivity between any
two actions. 


The summary table normally contains just a single line. The line shows
the total number of sessions in the class, total number of minutes
spent across all participants throughout the class, and counts for various
session length medians. 


The weeklyEffort table shows for each participant the median number of
(observable) minutes spent on the course during each week. For more 
explanation of this tables,
see 
our how-to page time on task section.
Forum Table
The forum table contains all the forum posts of one course. This table
is only meaningful for courses that used the forum that is built into
the OpenEdX platform. If the course of interest used a different forum
facility then this table is not what you want. The individual columns
are explained on our how-to page.
There are two types of forum table exports: relatable
and isolated. The difference lies in the coding scheme used to
anonymize the screen names of forum posters. In relatable forum
exports the coding scheme is identical to the one used in other course
data tables. It is thereby possible to compute correlations between
forum post behavior and other data about the same course participant.
In contrast, isolated forum exports use an entirely different scheme
for encoding screen names. Computation of correlations with other data
by the same course participant is therefore not possible with isolated
forum exports. However, isolated exports somewhat better protect
privacy, and are therefore preferred.
In all cases an effort is made in each forum post to automatically
redact occurrences of phone numbers, email addresses, zip codes, and
the poster's screen name. Word count is preserved with these
redactions. The redacted word is replaced with a token that identifies
the type of information that was elided. This process is not at all
perfect. Strict discretion is required of researchers when person
names are gleaned in forum data.






BerkeleyX datasets available by request